# Form Contexts

This package contains some helpers for creating forms in React.

## Form Validation

Links together the validation of every input in a form, requiring every input to be valid for the form itself to be valid.

- `FormProvider`: Wraps every component in a form, providing the context used by the form validation hooks

- `useFormValidity`: Returns the validity of the form - if any input is invalid, `false` is returned, otherwise it returns `true`

- `useInputValidity`: Links an input's validity to the form, so that if this input is invalid the entire form will be

## `useInputState`

A hook that provides common things needed for an input, providing validation (with `ValidationProvider` support) and support for using the ID generated by an `IdProvider`. It also handles abstraction for the `onChange` event to pass the value string instead of the event itself.

## Input & Label Validation Linking

Allows a label to access the validation state of its input.

- `ValidationProvider`: Wraps both the input and the label to allow them to communicate

- `useValidation`: Returns the validation result of the input that is also under the provider

- `useValidationSuspense`: Same as the above hook, except it suspends if the validation is in the loading state so that you always get a complete validation returned

- `useValidationUpdate`: Updates the validation result that `useValdiation` returns. If you are using `useInputState`, it handles this for you.

## Shared IDs

Allows a label to access the ID of the input that it is for.

- `IdProvider`: Wraps both the input and the label to allow them to communicate

- `useLocalId`: Returns the ID generated by the provider. In an input, this should be set as its `id` (if you are using `useInputState`, it handles this for you), and in a label it should be set as its `htmlFor` property.

## Inline Input Items

Allows inline items for an input to be specified as siblings to the input component

- `InlineGroup`: Wraps the input and the inline items to provide the required context

- `useInlineItems`: Returns the left and right inline items if they are set

- `useInlineItem`: Sets the inline item component for one of the sides
